pytorch_extra/readme.md, before:


Most of them are sourced from Aladdin Perrsons fantastic youtube channel!

# pytorch images captcha 

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/pytorch-captcha/edit?rvi=1

![](captcha_output.png)

# Using style transfer

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/style-transfer-using-pytorch/edit

### at low epochs :

![](style_transfer1.png)

### After 200 epochs :

![](style_transfer2.png)

# Variational autoencoder

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/creating-variational-autoencoders-in-pytorch/edit

taken from : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zp8clK9yCro

![](variational_autoencoder.png)

# Creating a chat application

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/creating-a-chatbot-with-pytorch/

![](samus_chat.gif)

# Name predictor

### Official tutorial:

![](rnn_name_predictor.png)

# Resnet from paper

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/implementing-resnet-from-paper-in-pytorch/edit

![](resnet_from_paper.png)

# Yolo

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/model-review-understanding-yolo-v3-with-pascal/edit

from youtube : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Grir6TZbc1M

![](yolo_mode.png)

# Learning Pytorch

## creating a simple neural network

![](learning_pytorch_1.png)

Somehow this model seems biased towards number 7.

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-1-creating-a-simple-network/edit

## creating a Convolutional neural network

![](learning_pytorch_2_custom_dataset.png)

I wonder why x expects a float while y should be long

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-2-creating-a-cnn/edit

I am also getting very low accuracy here.

The reason was a programmatical error while checking accuracy

![](learning_pytorch_2_correct_result.png)

## creating an RNN and GRU and LSTM

created the basis

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-3-coding-an-rnn-gru-lstm/edit

![](learning_pytorch_3_rnn.png)

implementing LSTM and GRU

![](learning_pytorch_3_lstm.png)

## Implementing RNN iwth time series data

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AvKSPZ7oyVg

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-4-time-sequence-with-lstm/edit

![](learning_pytorch_4_not_working.png)

https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1vy9iY5q8EbgVjgatJic-azSpMHrc6Qz5#scrollTo=Y7rt93ysFOaB

![](learning_pytorch_4_sine_wave.png)

## Implementing a bidirectional LSTM

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-5-creating-a-bidirectional-lstm/edit

![](learning_pytorch_5_handsign.png)

video:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jGst43P-TJA&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=6

### saving model

![](learning_pytorch_5_saving_model.png)

## Transfer learning

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qaDe0qQZ5AQ&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=8

![](learning_pytorch_6_transfer_learning.png)

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-6-transfer-learning/edit

The thing to note here was when I used VGG with mnist, its images were too small. But this is a nice method to change the default models.

## Loading a dataset
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZoZHd0Zm3RY&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=9

Its is showing an error right now.

![](learning_pytorch_7_error_multi_target.png)

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-7-custom-dataset/edit

After much code changing , it works!

![](learning_pytorch_7_custom_dataset.png)

## Loading a Text dataset

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9sHcLvVXsns&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=10

getting the error

1. bad caption numbers
2. cannot display proper images - handled.

![](learning_pytorch_8_error.png)

check code here :
https://github.com/aladdinpersson/Machine-Learning-Collection/blob/master/ML/Pytorch/Basics/custom_dataset_txt/loader_customtext.py


https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-8-working-with-text-dataset/edit

## Augmenting dataset using torchvision

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zvd276j9sZ8&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=11


Image dataset loaded

![](learning_pytorch_9_image_dataset_loaded.png)

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-9-data-augmentation-torchvision/edit

![](learning_pytorch_9_data_augmentation.png)

## Albumentations tutorial

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rAdLwKJBvPM&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=12

![](learning_pytorch_10_audrey.png)

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-10-albumentations-dataloader/edit

![](learning_pytorch_10_albumentation.png)

## Dealing with database imbalances

Not quite up there:

https://github.com/aladdinpersson/Machine-Learning-Collection/blob/master/ML/Pytorch/Basics/Imbalanced_classes/main.py

![](learning_pytorch_11_imbalances.png)

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-11-dealing-with-data-imbalances/edit

It actually created too much compensation.

## Tips and tricks of training

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O2wJ3tkc-TU&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=14

1. Overfit the batch first

>TO check wether the code is working or not

>use `next.iter(train_dataloader)` to extract a single batch and thentrain for 1000 at batch size 1, to check if loss is actually going down.

2. while checking use model.eval() and model.train()

>This removes stuff like batchnorma nd dropouts which is not required while doing inference

3. Dont forget to zero_grad() the optimizer

>Because you want ot delete the accumaulated gardients of previous batch

4. dont use softmax with crossentropy loss

>cross entropy loss in iteslef is two things its softmax followed by log liklihood

5. set bias =false with batchnorm

>gives equivalent performance

6. dont confuse view with permute

>they are not the same bro

7. Dont use wrong transformation for your dataset

>dont transpose.RandomHorizontalFlip(p=1.0) with MNIST because that is going to change the digit entirely

8. always put shuffle=true while making your dataloader

>except for in time based data like time series

9. NOrmalize the data

>with transform.Nomalize(mean=(), std=())

10. in LSTM, GRU and RNN use torch.nn.utils.clip_grad_norm(model.parameters(), max_norm=1)

>Because Alddin Perrson said so.

# LeNet implementation

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/implementing-lenet-for-digit-recognizer

Trying to implement the following architecture:

![](lenet_1.png)

ref: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fcOW-Zyb5Bo&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=16

Completed the implementation!

![](lenet_2.png)

# VGG implementation

ref: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ACmuBbuXn20&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=17

error with the dataset:
![](vgg_implementation_yoga.png)

notebook : https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/pytorch-yoga-pose-detection-using-vgg-from-scratch/edit

Implementing the vgg 16 architecture

![](vgg_implementation_model.png)

Error while makeing vgg from scratch, kaggle kernel cannot handle it.

![](vgg_implementation_scratch.png)

Creating the pretrained VGG model

![](vgg_implementation_pretrained.png)

# GoogleNet/ InceptionNet

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/pytorch-using-googlenet-to-see-flowers/edit

compiling model:

![](googlenet_implementation.png)

I realised that the size of images is important in the model implementation as the size of the image before the final linear layer matters,
This however can be changed.

Need to workon implementing the entire dataset.

On the entire dataset

![](googlenet_implementation_dataset.png)

# Efficientnet

Didnot understand

![](efficientnet.png)

# Image captioning tutorial

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/pytorch-image-captioning-with-flickr/edit/run/65215062

![](image_captioning_dataset_loaded.png)

https://github.com/aladdinpersson/Machine-Learning-Collection/blob/master/ML/Pytorch/more_advanced/image_captioning/get_loader.py

Try training the dataset next.

Commit message:

cats vs dogs dataset strange error

pytorch_extra/readme.md, after:


Most of them are sourced from Aladdin Perrsons fantastic youtube channel!

# pytorch images captcha 

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/pytorch-captcha/edit?rvi=1

![](captcha_output.png)

# Using style transfer

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/style-transfer-using-pytorch/edit

### at low epochs :

![](style_transfer1.png)

### After 200 epochs :

![](style_transfer2.png)

# Variational autoencoder

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/creating-variational-autoencoders-in-pytorch/edit

taken from : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zp8clK9yCro

![](variational_autoencoder.png)

# Creating a chat application

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/creating-a-chatbot-with-pytorch/

![](samus_chat.gif)

# Name predictor

### Official tutorial:

![](rnn_name_predictor.png)

# Resnet from paper

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/implementing-resnet-from-paper-in-pytorch/edit

![](resnet_from_paper.png)

# Yolo

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/model-review-understanding-yolo-v3-with-pascal/edit

from youtube : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Grir6TZbc1M

![](yolo_mode.png)

# Learning Pytorch

## creating a simple neural network

![](learning_pytorch_1.png)

Somehow this model seems biased towards number 7.

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-1-creating-a-simple-network/edit

## creating a Convolutional neural network

![](learning_pytorch_2_custom_dataset.png)

I wonder why x expects a float while y should be long

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-2-creating-a-cnn/edit

I am also getting very low accuracy here.

The reason was a programmatical error while checking accuracy

![](learning_pytorch_2_correct_result.png)

## creating an RNN and GRU and LSTM

created the basis

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-3-coding-an-rnn-gru-lstm/edit

![](learning_pytorch_3_rnn.png)

implementing LSTM and GRU

![](learning_pytorch_3_lstm.png)

## Implementing RNN iwth time series data

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AvKSPZ7oyVg

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-4-time-sequence-with-lstm/edit

![](learning_pytorch_4_not_working.png)

https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1vy9iY5q8EbgVjgatJic-azSpMHrc6Qz5#scrollTo=Y7rt93ysFOaB

![](learning_pytorch_4_sine_wave.png)

## Implementing a bidirectional LSTM

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-5-creating-a-bidirectional-lstm/edit

![](learning_pytorch_5_handsign.png)

video:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jGst43P-TJA&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=6

### saving model

![](learning_pytorch_5_saving_model.png)

## Transfer learning

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qaDe0qQZ5AQ&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=8

![](learning_pytorch_6_transfer_learning.png)

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-6-transfer-learning/edit

The thing to note here was when I used VGG with mnist, its images were too small. But this is a nice method to change the default models.

## Loading a dataset
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZoZHd0Zm3RY&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=9

Its is showing an error right now.

![](learning_pytorch_7_error_multi_target.png)

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-7-custom-dataset/edit

After much code changing , it works!

![](learning_pytorch_7_custom_dataset.png)

## Loading a Text dataset

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9sHcLvVXsns&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=10

getting the error

1. bad caption numbers
2. cannot display proper images - handled.

![](learning_pytorch_8_error.png)

check code here :
https://github.com/aladdinpersson/Machine-Learning-Collection/blob/master/ML/Pytorch/Basics/custom_dataset_txt/loader_customtext.py


https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-8-working-with-text-dataset/edit

## Augmenting dataset using torchvision

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zvd276j9sZ8&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=11


Image dataset loaded

![](learning_pytorch_9_image_dataset_loaded.png)

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-9-data-augmentation-torchvision/edit

![](learning_pytorch_9_data_augmentation.png)

## Albumentations tutorial

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rAdLwKJBvPM&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=12

![](learning_pytorch_10_audrey.png)

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-10-albumentations-dataloader/edit

![](learning_pytorch_10_albumentation.png)

## Dealing with database imbalances

Not quite up there:

https://github.com/aladdinpersson/Machine-Learning-Collection/blob/master/ML/Pytorch/Basics/Imbalanced_classes/main.py

![](learning_pytorch_11_imbalances.png)

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/learning-pytorch-11-dealing-with-data-imbalances/edit

It actually created too much compensation.

## Tips and tricks of training

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O2wJ3tkc-TU&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=14

1. Overfit the batch first

>TO check wether the code is working or not

>use `next.iter(train_dataloader)` to extract a single batch and thentrain for 1000 at batch size 1, to check if loss is actually going down.

2. while checking use model.eval() and model.train()

>This removes stuff like batchnorma nd dropouts which is not required while doing inference

3. Dont forget to zero_grad() the optimizer

>Because you want ot delete the accumaulated gardients of previous batch

4. dont use softmax with crossentropy loss

>cross entropy loss in iteslef is two things its softmax followed by log liklihood

5. set bias =false with batchnorm

>gives equivalent performance

6. dont confuse view with permute

>they are not the same bro

7. Dont use wrong transformation for your dataset

>dont transpose.RandomHorizontalFlip(p=1.0) with MNIST because that is going to change the digit entirely

8. always put shuffle=true while making your dataloader

>except for in time based data like time series

9. NOrmalize the data

>with transform.Nomalize(mean=(), std=())

10. in LSTM, GRU and RNN use torch.nn.utils.clip_grad_norm(model.parameters(), max_norm=1)

>Because Alddin Perrson said so.

# LeNet implementation

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/implementing-lenet-for-digit-recognizer

Trying to implement the following architecture:

![](lenet_1.png)

ref: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fcOW-Zyb5Bo&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=16

Completed the implementation!

![](lenet_2.png)

# VGG implementation

ref: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ACmuBbuXn20&list=PLhhyoLH6IjfxeoooqP9rhU3HJIAVAJ3Vz&index=17

error with the dataset:
![](vgg_implementation_yoga.png)

notebook : https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/pytorch-yoga-pose-detection-using-vgg-from-scratch/edit

Implementing the vgg 16 architecture

![](vgg_implementation_model.png)

Error while makeing vgg from scratch, kaggle kernel cannot handle it.

![](vgg_implementation_scratch.png)

Creating the pretrained VGG model

![](vgg_implementation_pretrained.png)

# GoogleNet/ InceptionNet

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/pytorch-using-googlenet-to-see-flowers/edit

compiling model:

![](googlenet_implementation.png)

I realised that the size of images is important in the model implementation as the size of the image before the final linear layer matters,
This however can be changed.

Need to workon implementing the entire dataset.

On the entire dataset

![](googlenet_implementation_dataset.png)

# Efficientnet

Didnot understand

![](efficientnet.png)

# Image captioning tutorial

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/pytorch-image-captioning-with-flickr/edit/run/65215062

![](image_captioning_dataset_loaded.png)

https://github.com/aladdinpersson/Machine-Learning-Collection/blob/master/ML/Pytorch/more_advanced/image_captioning/get_loader.py

Try training the dataset next. The strategy is to read understand implement.

# Kaggle competition Catsvs dogs redux

https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/pytorch-tackling-cats-and-dogs/edit

Getting error with tranform:

![](catsvsdogs_error.png)
