v4/lesson9/revision/readme.md, before:

Continuous variables are numerical data that can be fed onto the model, directly

The Categorical variables contain a number of discrete levels such as "mobile ID". For categorical variables we use something called entity embedding.

Entity embedding is equivalent to placing a dense layer linear layer after one hot encoding inputs

We provide fundamentally categorical values about the entities, and the e,bedding learnt by model defines a distance between them

The raw categorical data is first transformed into an embedding before it reacts with continous input data

If you are not using neiral network then you are using
1. ensemble of decision trees for structured data
1. Multilayerd neural networks learned with SGD for unstructured data like audio, images ad natural language

We use ensemble of decision trees for tabular model unless -
    1. There are some high cardinality categorical variables that are very important and cannotbe discarded

    2. Somecolumns havve plain text data that are best understoodby deep learning

we will be using scikit learn for decision trees, along with pandas and numpy

Fornow lets do the notebook part in kaggle.
Will come back and try the API with another dataset.

Workbook-
https://colab.research.google.com/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/09_tabular.ipynb#scrollTo=jo3ZZbfGQyHJ

My kernel-
https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/fastai-v4-walkthrough/edit

![](ordinal.png)

Creating a rudimentary decision tree from scratch:

![](handmade.png)

Using add datepart in fastai

![](add_datepart.png)

Creating a decisiontree based on the model

![](decision.png)

Post completion look at :
https://www.kaggle.com/c/malware-classification/data

Commit message:

ch9 revision looking at extrapolation problem in random forest

v4/lesson9/revision/readme.md, after:

Continuous variables are numerical data that can be fed onto the model, directly

The Categorical variables contain a number of discrete levels such as "mobile ID". For categorical variables we use something called entity embedding.

Entity embedding is equivalent to placing a dense layer linear layer after one hot encoding inputs

We provide fundamentally categorical values about the entities, and the e,bedding learnt by model defines a distance between them

The raw categorical data is first transformed into an embedding before it reacts with continous input data

If you are not using neiral network then you are using
1. ensemble of decision trees for structured data
1. Multilayerd neural networks learned with SGD for unstructured data like audio, images ad natural language

We use ensemble of decision trees for tabular model unless -
    1. There are some high cardinality categorical variables that are very important and cannotbe discarded

    2. Somecolumns havve plain text data that are best understoodby deep learning

we will be using scikit learn for decision trees, along with pandas and numpy

Fornow lets do the notebook part in kaggle.
Will come back and try the API with another dataset.

Workbook-
https://colab.research.google.com/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/09_tabular.ipynb#scrollTo=jo3ZZbfGQyHJ

My kernel-
https://www.kaggle.com/fanbyprinciple/fastai-v4-walkthrough/edit

![](ordinal.png)

Creating a rudimentary decision tree from scratch:

![](handmade.png)

Using add datepart in fastai

![](add_datepart.png)

Creating a decisiontree based on the model

![](decision.png)

Looking at decision tree through dtreeviz
![](dtreeviz.png)

Looking at random forest classifier
![](random.png)

Looking at confidence by various ensembles of trees
![](confidence.png)

Looking at feature importance
![](importance.png)

Looking how similar are the parameters
![](cluster.png)

Looking at the max_counts of a column value
![](maxcount.png)

Individual prediction
![](individual.png)

Extrapolation problem of random forest, it cannot predict outside the domain
![](extrapolation.png)

Post completion look at :
https://www.kaggle.com/c/malware-classification/data
